# 10. Regular Expression Matching     
Given an input string (s) and a pattern (p), implement regular expression matching with support for '.' and '*' where:     
'.' Matches any single character.           
'*' Matches zero or more of the preceding element.        
The matching should cover the entire input string (not partial).      

Example 1:    
Input: s = "aa", p = "a"    
Output: false     
Explanation: "a" does not match the entire string "aa".     

Example 2:    
Input: s = "aa", p = "a*"    
Output: true    
Explanation: '*' means zero or more of the preceding element, 'a'. Therefore, by repeating 'a' once, it becomes "aa".     

Example 3:    
Input: s = "ab", p = ".*"    
Output: true     
Explanation: ".*" means "zero or more (*) of any character (.)".     

Example 4:     
Input: s = "aab", p = "c*a*b"    
Output: true     
Explanation: c can be repeated 0 times, a can be repeated 1 time. Therefore, it matches "aab".    

Example 5:     
Input: s = "mississippi", p = "mis*is*p*."     
Output: false     

Constraints:     
0 <= s.length <= 20    
0 <= p.length <= 30    
s contains only lowercase English letters.    
p contains only lowercase English letters, '.', and '*'.    
It is guaranteed for each appearance of the character '*', there will be a previous valid character to match.     

## 1. Recursion    
If there were no Kleene stars (the * wildcard character for regular expressions), the problem would be easier - we simply check from left to right if each character of the text matches the pattern.     
When a star is present, we may need to check many different suffixes of the text and see if they match the rest of the pattern. A recursive solution is a straightforward way to represent this relationship.     
### Without a kleene star (*)
```
def match(text, pattern):
    if not pattern: return not text
    first_match = bool(text) and pattern[0] in {text[0], '.'}
    return first_match and match(text[1:], pattern[1:])
```

### With a kleene star     
If a star is present in the pattern, it will be in the second position \text{pattern[1]}pattern[1]. Then, we may ignore this part of the pattern, or delete a matching character in the text. If we have a match on the remaining strings after any of these operations, then the initial inputs matched.      
```
public boolean isMatch(String text, String pattern) {
        if (pattern.isEmpty()) return text.isEmpty();
        // check for first char (.: any single char)   
        boolean first_match = (!text.isEmpty() &&
                               (pattern.charAt(0) == text.charAt(0) || pattern.charAt(0) == '.'));

        // pattern's length >= 2 or not
        // if so, also check second char: check for rest of substring OR first char and rest of chars(start with second char)    
        if (pattern.length() >= 2 && pattern.charAt(1) == '*'){
            return (isMatch(text, pattern.substring(2)) ||
                    (first_match && isMatch(text.substring(1), pattern)));
        } else {
            return first_match && isMatch(text.substring(1), pattern.substring(1));
        }
}
```

## 2. Dynamic Programming     
对于 pp 中一个字符而言，它只能在 ss 中匹配一个字符，匹配的方法具有唯一性；而对于 pp 中字符 + 星号的组合而言，它可以在 ss 中匹配任意自然数个字符，并不具有唯一性。因此我们可以考虑使用动态规划，对匹配的方案进行枚举。        
我们用 f[i][j] 表示s 的前i 个字符与p 中的前j 个字符是否能够匹配。在进行状态转移时，我们考虑p 的第j 个字符的匹配情况。      





























